Hello there! this is my one of my basic projects on pic micoronctroller. 
I am going to tell you how to operate it. though at some point it might seem confusing. 
but stay with me I will try to explain as much as I could. 
There are two  PUSH BUTTONS named :
1) MODE1_sel / RST /START
2) MODE2_sel / INC

As you can see in their names, the first button is responsible for three functions these are mode 1 selector  , reset button and start button. 
and the second button is responsible for mode 2 selection , and increment. 
As soon as you power up  the timer. the first thing you will see is 4 zeroes appearing on the display (without blinking).
Now you have two options mode 1 and mode 2:

mode 1: programmable timer mode.
mode 2: fixed timer mode. 

first I am going to explain fixed timer mode 
so as you press mode 2 button , the 4 zeroes will start blinking, this  will indicate that timer is in fixed mode. Now  again you have two choices 

mode 1: 25 minutes.
mode 2: 15 minutes.

if you press mode 1 switch than 25 minutes fixed timer will be activated and led will start glowing. similarly mode 2 button will activate 15 minutes timer.
as the timer is running and you want to reset than you just have to press mode 1 button with reset functionality. 

Now comming to programmable mode 
suppose now the timer has just been powered up and now you pressed mode 1, than three zeroes without blink will appear on the display , indicating you have entered
programmable mode. 
now you have two choices 

1) mode 1: +10 increment 
2) mode 2: +1 increment

as soon as you press one of buttons than two zeroes will appear without blink , now What you have to do is use the  INC (Mode 2) button to set the timing. whether it is 
+10 increment or +1 increment, after you have reached your preferred timing figure. You just have to press start button (mode 1). And while the timer is running and you want to reset 
you have your reset button (mode 1). I am going to attach the flowchart of mode selection in an image format.  if you like this project do share it with your friends. 
Thankyou.
***note:- you can see there is slight malfunction when you press the increment button because you will see the figures are not incrementing as +10 or +1, it might 
go as +20 or +2 this is just on proteus simulation. but when you implement it on physical device , you won't get this errors. 

 